README.md, before:

# Ben Ashby Portfolio Project
![alt text](<Screenshot 2024-10-02 at 11.06.29.png>)
## Target Audience And Purpose
For this project I am going to create a personal portfolio website for potential employers to look at and for potential clients to gain paid work within web development. It will be primarily aimed at small businesses and sole traders to create affordable websites to promote and manage their business and also for social media businesses to create central points to send all of their clients from various social media platforms. 
### User Stories 
* As an employer I need to be able to view a biography, previous projects and be able to contact the person whose website I am viewing. 
* As an employer I need the website navigation to be clear and concise. 
* As an employer I would like to see the potential applicant’s skills and knowledge with regards to front-end web development. 
* As an employer i would like to see the applicant’s ability to create a fully responsive website suitable for use on all devices. 
## User Experience Design
### Strategy
This website will be used to help potential employers learn more about me and to link to demonstrations of my ability via my professional portfolio. Although I am yet to have a professional portfolio it will serve as a template for future projects to be linked too once i have finished my front-end web development course.
### Considerations
The project will be aimed at business and employers primarily so will be a corporate and professional business culture. I will contact some small business owners and also companies and conduct some interviews regarding what they would ideally like to see on a website such as mine to gain insight into what would attract these small business and employers and to help potentially develop a pay structure. I will also write some stories of potential users and what they feel they may be looking for in a website. 
### Business Goals
* To gain full-time employment in the field of full stack web development.  
### User Stories
As an employer using this website to judge Mr. Ashby’s potential and suitability regarding employability i am looking for: 
* Clear and concise information detailing potential employee’s skills and experience that is relevant to the target position.
* Employment history and personal information. 
* Details of projects completed and links to said projects within the portfolio. Must also be easy to find within the page.
* Downloadable CV. 
As a user who is a sole-trader/small business owner looking for someone to build a website I am looking for: 
* Personal information. 
* Details of projects completed and links to said projects within the portfolio. Must also be easy to find within the page.
*Downloadable CV. 
  As it is a predominantly business to business-based website there are a number of considerations I must take into account.  
My day-to-day role is going to be a web developer so any personal information will be relevant to this role. The functions i would like it to perform will be: 
* Display information about myself to employers. 
* Display links to my portfolio  
* Display my skills as a web developer through clean, attractive and simple yet functional design. 
* Downloadable CV
The technology that will be used to perform these functions will be from using: 

* Wireframe design technology for planning. 
* CSS 
* HTML 
* Google fonts 
* Font awesome 
### Trade Off Strategy
* Provide easy to find links to my portfolio – Importance: 5 Viability/Feasibility: 5 
* Provide a downloadable cv - Importance: 5 Viability/Feasibility: 5 
* Provide information on myself to potential employers: Importance: 5 Viability/Feasibility: 5 
* Provide a cost structure for small business clients: Importance: 3 Viability/Feasibility: 2 
* Demonstrate attractive and simple design - Importance: 5 Viability/Feasibility: 4 
## Scope
After reviewing my UAX strategy section I have developed and refined my original goals and aims for my project. I believe there is a conflict regarding my original idea of having both a website for using as a portfolio for potential employers and as a site for small business owners to pay for production of websites for business. This leads to a big decision regarding what trade-offs are on the table.  A choice needs to be made regarding having a website with a dual aim of gaining employment and gaining clients for website projects being carried out by myself and just using the site for the singular purpose of gaining employment in the front-end web development sector. 

I have decided that the project will focus on building a website with the sole use of displaying my portfolio to hopefully gain employment with an employer. There are a number of factors that have led to this decision due to both practical and scalability issues: 
* Gaining employment will be the best way to gain experience and skills in the field of front-end web development. 
* A lack of current work to add to my portfolio would mean there would be very little chance of gaining contracts and work with small businesses. 
* A website for running a business would be far more complicated and in depth to succesfuly design and scale within the time restrictions placed due to deadlines for completion. 
* Web development is a highly competitive industry and with my lack of skills and design experience it would be very difficult to gain contracts with my current level of experience. 

After reviewing my strategy section and also making trade off decisions I am able to create a list of the final planned features and content for the website. These are as follows: 
* A home page featuring navigation, a photo and also a video introduction by myself providing a brief summary of my skills and also some personal information. 
* A biography section featuring the information from the video summarized in a text form. 
* A portfolio section. 
* A contact section. 
* A link for access to a downloadable CV. 

Despite the trade-off regarding using the site as a personal portfolio to gain employment vs using it as a website to gain work from web developing for small businesses/sole traders, I believe in the future more features could be added and developed to implement its use as a site to gain clients for web development including: 
* A price structure and more information regarding web development packages. 

## Structure

The website will feature a simple structure starting from the home page and navigating to 2 other sections of the website. The navigation bar will be located at the top of the page. It will open on the homepage and have navigation to the main sections, namely: biography and portfolio. There will also be a contact section at the bottom of the page. 

 ## Skeleton

![Rough Wireframe Of Homepage](<assets/images/sitewireframe.png>)

## Overall Features

### The Header
* The Navigation bar features on all three pages headers containing a home logo with my name and also a biography and portfolio navigation button.

### The Footer
* The footer features a contact section, icons for linkedin and github linking to my profiles, a copyright and also a site map.

### Home Page
* The home page features three circular images to introduce the user to the site.

### Biography Page
* The biography page features three sections detailing some information about me, my skills and also my education.

### Portfolio Page
* The portfolio page features three links that will eventually lead to projects completed by myself but for now are just dummy links to images. These will be updated in the future.

### Colour Palette
Borders?Background  - #313E50
Borders/Background  - #6C6F7F
Text colour - #F7F7FF

The site features the two main colours of background and borders switching roles depending on the page section.
The colours were decieded and used from ( https://coolors.com ) 

### Fonts

The fonts used were Oswald and Sans serif. These were selected from google fonts. ( https://fonts.google.com/ )

### Images
![Linkedin icon](assets/images/317750_linkedin_icon.png)
Linkedin icon used from linkedin.
![Webdev image](<assets/images/chen-Qtu3hGinLF8-unsplash (1).jpg>)
![alt text](assets/images/ferenc-almasi-hMYODfDWs9M-unsplash.jpg)
![alt text](assets/images/webcoding.jpg)
Images used from unsplash( https://unsplash.com )
Image used from github [Github logo] (assets/images/github-logo.png)
Image used from ( https://www.favicon-generator.org/ ) ![Favicon Icon](assets/images/favicon.jpg)
### Icons
All icons have been used from Font awesome ( https://fontawesome.com/ )

## Testing

Page was tested using the following device specifications-
* I-Phone 12 pro.
* I-Pad pro.
* 16 Inch screen lenovo thinkpad running google chrome.

## Validation

* All pages tested using Lighthouse providing a good score for all area 
![alt text](<Screenshot 2024-10-02 at 11.05.03.png>)s.

* Tested using wave with no errors (  https://wave.webaim.org/ )
* Tested with no errors with Jigsaw ( http://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/validator?lang=en&profile=css3svg&uri=https%3A%2F%2Fjamminben84.github.io%2FProject-1%2F&usermedium=all&vextwarning=&warning=1)
* Tested using W3c validator with no errors ( https://validator.w3.org/)

## Deployment
The Ben Ashby Portfolio site was deployed to GitHub pages, via the following steps:

Go to the Project 1 repository.
Go to the Settings tab (top left in the menu)
Go to the left-hand section,under Code and automation click Pages.
Go to Source under Build and deployment and use the dropdown menu to choose Deploy from a branch.
Under Branch use the dropdown menu to select main and set the folder to root.
The live link can be found via - ( https://jamminben84.github.io/Project-1/ ) 

## Credits

### Content
* Icons were sourced from font awesome.

### Media
* Favicon was used to source the fav-icon for the tab.
* unsplash was used to soruce images for the site.
* coolors was used to find a matching color pallette for the site.

Commit message:

Added images for read me, amended external links to open externally

README.md, after:

# Ben Ashby Portfolio Project
![alt text](<assets/images/mockupwebsite .png>)
## Target Audience And Purpose
For this project I am going to create a personal portfolio website for potential employers to look at and for potential clients to gain paid work within web development. It will be primarily aimed at small businesses and sole traders to create affordable websites to promote and manage their business and also for social media businesses to create central points to send all of their clients from various social media platforms. 
### User Stories 
* As an employer I need to be able to view a biography, previous projects and be able to contact the person whose website I am viewing. 
* As an employer I need the website navigation to be clear and concise. 
* As an employer I would like to see the potential applicant’s skills and knowledge with regards to front-end web development. 
* As an employer i would like to see the applicant’s ability to create a fully responsive website suitable for use on all devices. 
## User Experience Design
### Strategy
This website will be used to help potential employers learn more about me and to link to demonstrations of my ability via my professional portfolio. Although I am yet to have a professional portfolio it will serve as a template for future projects to be linked too once i have finished my front-end web development course.
### Considerations
The project will be aimed at business and employers primarily so will be a corporate and professional business culture. I will contact some small business owners and also companies and conduct some interviews regarding what they would ideally like to see on a website such as mine to gain insight into what would attract these small business and employers and to help potentially develop a pay structure. I will also write some stories of potential users and what they feel they may be looking for in a website. 
### Business Goals
* To gain full-time employment in the field of full stack web development.  
### User Stories
As an employer using this website to judge Mr. Ashby’s potential and suitability regarding employability i am looking for: 
* Clear and concise information detailing potential employee’s skills and experience that is relevant to the target position.
* Employment history and personal information. 
* Details of projects completed and links to said projects within the portfolio. Must also be easy to find within the page.
* Downloadable CV. 
As a user who is a sole-trader/small business owner looking for someone to build a website I am looking for: 
* Personal information. 
* Details of projects completed and links to said projects within the portfolio. Must also be easy to find within the page.
*Downloadable CV. 
  As it is a predominantly business to business-based website there are a number of considerations I must take into account.  
My day-to-day role is going to be a web developer so any personal information will be relevant to this role. The functions i would like it to perform will be: 
* Display information about myself to employers. 
* Display links to my portfolio  
* Display my skills as a web developer through clean, attractive and simple yet functional design. 
* Downloadable CV
The technology that will be used to perform these functions will be from using: 

* Wireframe design technology for planning. 
* CSS 
* HTML 
* Google fonts 
* Font awesome 
### Trade Off Strategy
* Provide easy to find links to my portfolio – Importance: 5 Viability/Feasibility: 5 
* Provide a downloadable cv - Importance: 5 Viability/Feasibility: 5 
* Provide information on myself to potential employers: Importance: 5 Viability/Feasibility: 5 
* Provide a cost structure for small business clients: Importance: 3 Viability/Feasibility: 2 
* Demonstrate attractive and simple design - Importance: 5 Viability/Feasibility: 4 
## Scope
After reviewing my UAX strategy section I have developed and refined my original goals and aims for my project. I believe there is a conflict regarding my original idea of having both a website for using as a portfolio for potential employers and as a site for small business owners to pay for production of websites for business. This leads to a big decision regarding what trade-offs are on the table.  A choice needs to be made regarding having a website with a dual aim of gaining employment and gaining clients for website projects being carried out by myself and just using the site for the singular purpose of gaining employment in the front-end web development sector. 

I have decided that the project will focus on building a website with the sole use of displaying my portfolio to hopefully gain employment with an employer. There are a number of factors that have led to this decision due to both practical and scalability issues: 
* Gaining employment will be the best way to gain experience and skills in the field of front-end web development. 
* A lack of current work to add to my portfolio would mean there would be very little chance of gaining contracts and work with small businesses. 
* A website for running a business would be far more complicated and in depth to succesfuly design and scale within the time restrictions placed due to deadlines for completion. 
* Web development is a highly competitive industry and with my lack of skills and design experience it would be very difficult to gain contracts with my current level of experience. 

After reviewing my strategy section and also making trade off decisions I am able to create a list of the final planned features and content for the website. These are as follows: 
* A home page featuring navigation, a photo and also a video introduction by myself providing a brief summary of my skills and also some personal information. 
* A biography section featuring the information from the video summarized in a text form. 
* A portfolio section. 
* A contact section. 
* A link for access to a downloadable CV. 

Despite the trade-off regarding using the site as a personal portfolio to gain employment vs using it as a website to gain work from web developing for small businesses/sole traders, I believe in the future more features could be added and developed to implement its use as a site to gain clients for web development including: 
* A price structure and more information regarding web development packages. 

## Structure

The website will feature a simple structure starting from the home page and navigating to 2 other sections of the website. The navigation bar will be located at the top of the page. It will open on the homepage and have navigation to the main sections, namely: biography and portfolio. There will also be a contact section at the bottom of the page. 

 ## Skeleton

![Rough Wireframe Of Homepage](<assets/images/sitewireframe.png>)

## Overall Features

### The Header
* The Navigation bar features on all three pages headers containing a home logo with my name and also a biography and portfolio navigation button.

### The Footer
* The footer features a contact section, icons for linkedin and github linking to my profiles, a copyright and also a site map.

### Home Page
* The home page features three circular images to introduce the user to the site.

### Biography Page
* The biography page features three sections detailing some information about me, my skills and also my education.

### Portfolio Page
* The portfolio page features three links that will eventually lead to projects completed by myself but for now are just dummy links to images. These will be updated in the future.

### Colour Palette
Borders?Background  - #313E50
Borders/Background  - #6C6F7F
Text colour - #F7F7FF

The site features the two main colours of background and borders switching roles depending on the page section.
The colours were decieded and used from ( https://coolors.com ) 

### Fonts

The fonts used were Oswald and Sans serif. These were selected from google fonts. ( https://fonts.google.com/ )

### Images
![Linkedin icon](assets/images/linkedinicon.png)
Linkedin icon used from linkedin.
Images used from unsplash( https://unsplash.com )
Image used from github [Github logo] (assets/images/github-logo.png)
Image used from ( https://www.favicon-generator.org/ ) ![Favicon Icon](assets/images/favicon.jpg)
### Icons
All icons have been used from Font awesome ( https://fontawesome.com/ )
## Testing
Page was tested using the following device specifications-
* I-Phone 12 pro.
* I-Pad pro.
* 16 Inch screen lenovo thinkpad running google chrome.
## Validation
* Tested using wave with no errors (  https://wave.webaim.org/ )
* Tested with no errors with Jigsaw ( http://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/validator?lang=en&profile=css3svg&uri=https%3A%2F%2Fjamminben84.github.io%2FProject-1%2F&usermedium=all&vextwarning=&warning=1)
* Tested using W3c validator with no errors ( https://validator.w3.org/)
* Tested with lighthouse ![lighthouse score](<assets/images/lighthouse_score.png>)
### User Stories
The following user stories I believe were met by the final site. 
* As an employer I need to be able to view a biography, previous projects and be able to contact the person whose website I am viewing.![project links image](<assets/images/projects.png>)
![download cv image](<assets/images/download_cv.png>)
* As an employer I need the website navigation to be clear and concise. 
![navigation bar image](<assets/images/navigation_bar.png>)
* As an employer I would like to see the potential applicant’s skills and knowledge with regards to front-end web development. 
* As an employer i would like to see the applicant’s ability to create a fully responsive website suitable for use on all devices. ![lighthouse_score](<assets/images/mockupwebsite .png>)
## Deployment
The Ben Ashby Portfolio site was deployed to GitHub pages, via the following steps:
Go to the Project 1 repository.
Go to the Settings tab (top left in the menu)
Go to the left-hand section,under Code and automation click Pages.
Go to Source under Build and deployment and use the dropdown menu to choose Deploy from a branch.
Under Branch use the dropdown menu to select main and set the folder to root.
The live link can be found via - ( https://jamminben84.github.io/Project-1/ ) 
### Content
* Icons were sourced from font awesome.
### Media
* Favicon was used to source the fav-icon for the tab.
* unsplash was used to soruce images for the site.
* coolors was used to find a matching color pallette for the site.
